battery-sensor/README.md, before:

<div id="top"></div>

<div align="center">
  <a href="https://www.kystlaget-trh.no/">
    <img src="images/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="120" height="120">
  </a>

  <br />
  <h1 align="center">Elfryd Sensor Monitoring System</h1>
  

  <p align="center">
    A comprehensive IoT solution for monitoring battery levels and environmental conditions on the Elfryd boat, featuring secure data collection, cloud storage, and real-time monitoring capabilities.
  </p>
</div>

<hr />

<div align="center">
  <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/C_(programming_language)"><img src="https://tinyurl.com/249mjzb9" alt="C"></a>
  <a href="https://www.python.org/"><img src="https://tinyurl.com/26vvmywy" alt="Python"></a>
  <a href="https://www.docker.com/"><img src="https://tinyurl.com/278rykn6" alt="Docker"></a>
  <a href="https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/csharp/"><img src="https://tinyurl.com/2c9p4knv" alt="C#"></a>
  <a href="https://dotnet.microsoft.com/"><img src="https://tinyurl.com/26sekyup" alt=".NET"></a>
  <br>
  <a href="https://mqtt.org/"><img src="https://tinyurl.com/2yeuyq5z" alt="MQTT"></a>
  <a href="https://azure.microsoft.com/"><img src="https://tinyurl.com/2b7fwu7m" alt="Azure"></a>
  <a href="https://vuejs.org/"><img src="https://tinyurl.com/22c28lf3" alt="Vue.js"></a>
  <a href="https://nuxtjs.org/"><img src="https://tinyurl.com/25w36sc9" alt="Nuxt.js"></a>
</div>

<br />

<details>
  <summary>Table of Contents</summary>
  <ol>
    <li><a href="#system-overview">System Overview</a></li>
    <li>
      <a href="#project-components">Project Components</a>
      <ul>
        <li><a href="#1-sensor-layer">Sensor Layer</a></li>
        <li><a href="#2-ble-communication-layer">BLE Communication Layer</a></li>
        <li><a href="#3-nrf9160-feather-hub">nRF9160 Feather Hub</a></li>
        <li><a href="#4-mqtt-broker-system">MQTT Broker System</a></li>
        <li><a href="#5-backend--frontend-coming-soon">Backend & Frontend</a></li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li><a href="#data-flow">Data Flow</a></li>
    <li><a href="#key-features">Key Features</a></li>
    <li><a href="#getting-started">Getting Started</a></li>
    <li><a href="#project-status">Project Status</a></li>
    <li><a href="#development-team">Development Team</a></li>
  </ol>
</details>

<!-- # Elfryd Boat Monitoring System -->

<!-- ![Elfryd Logo](/battery-sensor/images/logo.jpg) -->

<!-- A comprehensive IoT solution for monitoring battery levels and environmental conditions on the Elfryd boat, featuring secure data collection, cloud storage, and real-time monitoring capabilities. -->

## System Overview

The Elfryd Boat Monitoring System provides a complete data pipeline from onboard sensors to a user-friendly dashboard:

```
Sensors → BLE Network → nRF9160 Hub → MQTT Broker → Database → Backend → Frontend
```

This IoT system enables members of Kystlaget to:

- Monitor battery voltage levels across multiple batteries
- Track environmental conditions (temperature, motion)
- View historical data and trends
- Configure monitoring parameters remotely

## Project Components

### 1. Sensor Layer

Collects data from physical sensors on the boat, including:

- Battery voltage sensors
- Temperature sensors
- Gyroscope/accelerometer for motion detection

[Sensor Documentation →](/battery-sensor/sensor/README.md)

### 2. BLE Communication Layer

Enables energy-efficient local communication between sensors through Bluetooth Low Energy:

- **BLE Peripheral**: Sensor nodes that collect and transmit data
- **BLE Central**: Central node that processes incoming data from peripherals and forwards it to the nRF9160 Feather Hub

[BLE Central Documentation →](/battery-sensor/nrf/ble/central/README.md)
[BLE Peripheral Documentation →](/battery-sensor/nrf/ble/peripheral/README.md)

### 3. nRF9160 Feather Hub

The central communication hub that:

- Receives sensor data from the BLE Central node
- Timestamps and processes sensor readings
- Provides LTE connectivity for cloud transmission over MQTT
- Is configurable remotely via MQTT
- Caches data to reduce network load
- Uses TLS for secure communication

[Hub Documentation →](/battery-sensor/nrf/hub/README.md)
[Flashing Instructions →](/battery-sensor/nrf/hub/docs/FLASHING.md)

### 4. MQTT Broker System

Azure VM-based message broker system that:

- Secures communications with TLS encryption
- Processes and stores incoming sensor data
- Provides a REST API for data access
- Enables configuration commands to be sent to the boat

[Broker Documentation →](/battery-sensor/broker/README.md)
[API Documentation →](/battery-sensor/broker/docs/api.md)
[Bridge Documentation →](/battery-sensor/broker/docs/bridge.md)

### 5. Backend & Frontend (Coming Soon)

The user interface components (in development):

- **.NET Backend**: Processes and analyzes sensor data
- **Nuxt (Vue.js) Frontend**: Provides an intuitive dashboard for monitoring

*Note: These components are currently being developed and will be added to the project soon.*

## Data Flow

1. **Data Collection**: Sensors measure battery voltage, temperature, and motion
2. **BLE Transmission**: BLE Central node receives individual readings from sensor nodes
3. **MQTT Transmission**: nRF9160 Hub sends sensor data to the MQTT broker via LTE at regular intervals
4. **Data Storage**: TimescaleDB stores time-series data efficiently
5. **Data Access**: REST API provides standardized data access for the backend
6. **Backend Processing**: Backend processes data for analysis and visualization
7. **Visualization**: Frontend dashboard displays real-time and historical data

## Key Features

- **Robust Connectivity**: Cellular LTE connection ensures data transmission from remote locations
- **Power Efficiency**: BLE communication and optimized sampling intervals preserve power
- **Data Buffering**: Continuous data collection even during network outages
- **Secure Communication**: End-to-end encryption using TLS for all data transmission
- **Configurable Parameters**: Remotely adjust sampling rates and request data between intervals
- **Time-Series Database**: Optimized storage and retrieval of sensor data

## Getting Started

For detailed setup instructions, visit the specific component documentation linked above. Each component includes its own setup guides, prerequisites, and configuration options.

### Quick Start Guides:

- [Setting up the Feather Hub](/battery-sensor/nrf/hub/docs/FLASHING.md)
- [VM Setup for Broker](/battery-sensor/broker/docs/vm_setup.md)

## Project Status

- ✅ Sensor Components
- ✅ BLE Communication
- 🔄 I2C transmission - In Progress
- ✅ nRF9160 Hub
- ✅ MQTT Broker & Database
- 🔄 Backend (.NET) - In Progress
- 🔄 Frontend (Nuxt/Vue.js) - In Progress

## Development Team

This project is developed as part of IT2901 Information Technology Project II at NTNU. Our team is focused on creating a reliable IoT monitoring solution for the Elfryd boat.

<p align="right">(<a href="#top">back to top</a>)</p>

Commit message:

46 restructure battery sensor as independent project (#51)
The modular structure of the battery-sensor directory is now structured
more logically. The legacy code coupling is now gone. Placeholder
READMEs have been added for each part of the project, and developer
teams are mentioned to show who worked on what.

battery-sensor/README.md, after:

<div id="top"></div>

<div align="center">
  <a href="https://www.kystlaget-trh.no/">
    <img src="images/logo.jpg" alt="Logo" width="120" height="120">
  </a>

  <br />
  <h1 align="center">Elfryd Sensor Monitoring System</h1>
  

  <p align="center">
    A comprehensive IoT solution for monitoring battery levels and environmental conditions on the Elfryd boat, featuring secure data collection, cloud storage, and real-time monitoring capabilities.
  </p>
</div>

<hr />

<div align="center">
  <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/C_(programming_language)"><img src="https://tinyurl.com/249mjzb9" alt="C"></a>
  <a href="https://www.python.org/"><img src="https://tinyurl.com/26vvmywy" alt="Python"></a>
  <a href="https://www.docker.com/"><img src="https://tinyurl.com/278rykn6" alt="Docker"></a>
  <a href="https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/csharp/"><img src="https://tinyurl.com/2c9p4knv" alt="C#"></a>
  <a href="https://dotnet.microsoft.com/"><img src="https://tinyurl.com/26sekyup" alt=".NET"></a>
  <br>
  <a href="https://mqtt.org/"><img src="https://tinyurl.com/2yeuyq5z" alt="MQTT"></a>
  <a href="https://azure.microsoft.com/"><img src="https://tinyurl.com/2b7fwu7m" alt="Azure"></a>
  <a href="https://vuejs.org/"><img src="https://tinyurl.com/22c28lf3" alt="Vue.js"></a>
  <a href="https://nuxtjs.org/"><img src="https://tinyurl.com/25w36sc9" alt="Nuxt.js"></a>
</div>

<br />

<details>
  <summary>Table of Contents</summary>
  <ol>
    <li><a href="#system-overview">System Overview</a></li>
    <li>
      <a href="#project-components">Project Components</a>
      <ul>
        <li><a href="#1-sensor-layer">Sensor Layer</a></li>
        <li><a href="#2-ble-communication-layer">BLE Communication Layer</a></li>
        <li><a href="#3-nrf9160-feather-hub">nRF9160 Feather Hub</a></li>
        <li><a href="#4-mqtt-broker-system">MQTT Broker System</a></li>
        <li><a href="#5-backend--frontend-coming-soon">Backend & Frontend</a></li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li><a href="#data-flow">Data Flow</a></li>
    <li><a href="#key-features">Key Features</a></li>
    <li><a href="#getting-started">Getting Started</a></li>
    <li><a href="#project-status">Project Status</a></li>
    <li><a href="#development-team">Development Team</a></li>
  </ol>
</details>

<!-- # Elfryd Boat Monitoring System -->

<!-- ![Elfryd Logo](/battery-sensor/images/logo.jpg) -->

<!-- A comprehensive IoT solution for monitoring battery levels and environmental conditions on the Elfryd boat, featuring secure data collection, cloud storage, and real-time monitoring capabilities. -->

## System Overview

The Elfryd Boat Monitoring System provides a complete data pipeline from onboard sensors to a user-friendly dashboard:

```
Sensors → BLE Network → nRF9160 Hub → MQTT Broker → Database → Backend → Frontend
```

This IoT system enables members of Kystlaget to:

- Monitor battery voltage levels across multiple batteries
- Track environmental conditions (temperature, motion)
- View historical data and trends
- Configure monitoring parameters remotely

## Project Components

### 1. Sensor Layer

Collects data from physical sensors on the boat, including:

- Battery voltage sensors
- Temperature sensors
- Gyroscope/accelerometer for motion detection

[Sensor Documentation →](/battery-sensor/nrf/sensor/README.md)

### 2. BLE Communication Layer

Enables energy-efficient local communication between sensors through Bluetooth Low Energy:

- **BLE Peripheral**: Sensor nodes that collect and transmit data
- **BLE Central**: Central node that processes incoming data from peripherals and forwards it to the nRF9160 Feather Hub

[BLE Documentation →](/battery-sensor/nrf/ble/README.md)

### 3. nRF9160 Feather Hub

The central communication hub that:

- Receives sensor data from the BLE Central node
- Timestamps and processes sensor readings
- Provides LTE connectivity for cloud transmission over MQTT
- Is configurable remotely via MQTT
- Caches data to reduce network load
- Uses TLS for secure communication

[Hub Documentation →](/battery-sensor/nrf/hub/README.md)

### 4. MQTT Broker System

Azure VM-based message broker system that:

- Secures communications with TLS encryption
- Processes and stores incoming sensor data over MQTT
- Provides a REST API for data access over HTTPS
- Enables configuration commands to be sent to the boat

[Broker Documentation →](/battery-sensor/broker/README.md)

### 5. Backend (Coming Soon)

The .NET-based backend that:
- Calculates state of charge (SoC) for batteries
- Calculates pitch/roll/yaw from gyroscope data
- Provides a REST API for frontend access

[Backend Documentation →](/battery-sensor/backend/README.md)

### 6. Frontend (Coming Soon)

The Nuxt/Vue.js-based frontend that:
- Displays real-time and historical data
- Provides a user-friendly dashboard for monitoring
- Allows users to configure monitoring parameters
- Allows users to send commands to the boat

[Frontend Documentation →](/battery-sensor/frontend/README.md)

## Data Flow

1. **Data Collection**: Sensors measure battery voltage, temperature, and motion
2. **BLE Transmission**: BLE Central node receives individual readings from sensor nodes
3. **MQTT Transmission**: nRF9160 Hub sends sensor data to the MQTT broker via LTE at regular intervals
4. **Data Storage**: TimescaleDB stores time-series data efficiently
5. **Data Access**: REST API provides standardized data access for the backend
6. **Backend Processing**: Backend processes data for analysis and visualization
7. **Visualization**: Frontend dashboard displays real-time and historical data

## Key Features

- **Robust Connectivity**: Cellular LTE connection ensures data transmission from remote locations
- **Power Efficiency**: BLE communication and optimized sampling intervals preserve power
- **Data Buffering**: Continuous data collection even during network outages
- **Secure Communication**: End-to-end encryption using TLS for all data transmission
- **Configurable Parameters**: Remotely adjust sampling rates and request data between intervals
- **Time-Series Database**: Optimized storage and retrieval of sensor data

## Getting Started

For detailed setup instructions, visit the specific component documentation linked above. Each component includes its own setup guides, prerequisites, and configuration options.

### Quick Start Guides:

- [Setting up the Feather Hub](/battery-sensor/nrf/hub/docs/FLASHING.md)
- [VM Setup for Broker](/battery-sensor/broker/docs/vm_setup.md)

## Project Status

- ✅ Sensor Components
- ✅ BLE Communication
- 🔄 I2C transmission - In Progress
- ✅ nRF9160 Hub
- ✅ MQTT Broker & Database
- 🔄 Backend (.NET) - In Progress
- 🔄 Frontend (Nuxt/Vue.js) - In Progress

## Development Team

This project is developed as part of IT2901 Information Technology Project II at NTNU. Our team is focused on creating a reliable IoT monitoring solution for the Elfryd boat:

- Martin Vågseter Jakobsen 
- Magnus Hansen Åsheim
- Leif Eggenfellner
- David Salguero Spilde
- Jonas Elvedal Hole
- Sigve Fehn Kulsrud

<p align="right">(<a href="#top">back to top</a>)</p>
